# WP CLI CSV

This plugin adds a `csv` command to Wordpress CLI.

### Creadits

Initial ideas and some code from: https://github.com/jeffsebring/wp-cli-import-csv

### Installation

You can install this as a WP CLI package using `wp package` command or as a WordPress plugin.
### `import` sub command

	Imports data from a CSV file into WordPress
	
	## OPTIONS
	
	<file>
	: The CSV file from which to import data. Required.
	
	--type=<post_type|taxonomy>
	: The import type to be used for inserting data. Required.
	
	--name=<name>
	: The name of the import type. Required.
	
	[--mapping=<mapping_file>]
	: A JSON file describing the header mappings. If not given, you should use `csv_commands_mappings` filter to ovide mappings.
	
	[--dry-run[=<n>]]
	: Turn on dry run mode. Processes `n` records if given. Defaults to 10. No updates to WordPress takes place.
	
	[--author=<author>]
	: The user ID or username.
	
	[--status=<status>]
	: The post status. Defaults to `publish`.
	
	[--verbose]
	: Turn on verbose mode.
	
	[--thumbnail-base-url=<thumbnail_base_url>]
	: URL part to thumbnails.
	
	[--header]
	: Does the CSV has a header row? Defaults to true. If set to false, header names are autogenerated
	in the form of 'C1', 'C2' etc.
	
	[--strict]
	: Reject lines where the number of fields do not match the header. Defaults to false.
	
	[--delimiter=<delimiter>]
	: The CSV file delimiter. Defaults to ','.
	
	[--enclosure=<enclosure>]
	: The CSV file enclosure for fields. Defaults to '"'.
	
	[--escape=<escape>]
	: The CSV file escape character. Defaults to '\\'.
	
	## EXAMPLES
	
	    # Import quotes from a CSV with given mapping JSON
	    $ wp csv import --type=post_type --name=post --mapping=quotes.json quotes.json
	    Success: Wrote 10 records.
	

### Mapping file format

The command requires a mapping file in JSON format to map each of the CSV header fields to the corresponding WordPress post field.

The file consists of a JSON object. Each key of the object represents an header element from the CSV file. The value is an object consisting of the following fields:

#### Format for importing `post_type`

* `type`: The type of the field container. One of `post`, `taxonomy`, `meta` or `thumbnail`.
* `name`: The name of the field. When `type` is `post` should be one of WordPress post fields.
   For `taxonomy` and `meta` the name can appear in multiple entries. For `taxonomy` all terms will be written. For `meta` a single entry is written as an array.
* `sanitize`: A list of WordPress functions used to sanitize the field.
* `delimiter`: If the CSV field contains multiple values, you can use `delimiter` to `explode` the value into an array for `taxonomy` and `meta` type fields.

#### Format for importing `taxonomy`

* `type`: The type of the field container. One of `term`, `meta` or `thumbnail`.
* `name`: The name of the field. When `type` is `term` should be one of WordPress `WP_Term` fields.
   For `meta` the name can appear in multiple entries. A single entry is written as an array.
* `sanitize`: A list of WordPress functions used to sanitize the field.
* `delimiter`: If the CSV field contains multiple values, you can use `delimiter` to `explode` the value into an array for `taxonomy` and `meta` type fields.

#### Example

The following example imports a CSV file containing quotations into WordPress `post` post type. The full CSV file and the mapping file is in the `examples` folder.

The CSV File (`quotes_dataset.csv`):

	"Mans vanity transgresses death","Erik Christian Haugaard, The Samurai's Tale","death, pride, vanity"
	"Monsters are not born they are made.","Valjeanne Jeffers","life-and-living, truth-of-life"
	"Coffee is to a Writer as Blood is to a Vampire!","Kade Cook","reality"

The Mapping file (`quotes_dataset-mapping.json`):

	{
	    "C1": {
		"type": "post",
		"sanitize": [ "wp_kses_post" ],
		"name": "post_title"
	    },
	    "C2": {
		"type": "taxonomy",
		"sanitize": [ "ucwords" ],
		"name": "category"
	    },
	    "C3": {
		"type": "taxonomy",
		"sanitize": [ "ucwords" ],
		"name": "post_tag",
		"delimiter": ","
	    }
	}

We can import using the following command:

```
  wp csv import quotes_dataset.csv --no-header --type=post_type --name=post --status=publish --mapping=quotes_dataset-mapping.json
```
Both these files should be available in a folder accessible to `wp` command.

